---
layout: post
title: Halloween 2013
description: I am dressing up like a tibetan monk for Halloween, shaving my head in the process.
tags:
- life
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
---

For a good two weeks, I struggled to find an idea of what to be for halloween until I realized I needed a haircut and some sandals. What could I do that would satisfy those requirements that would be relatively easy to put together, but involve enough craftiness to feel the self-satisfaction of a homemade costume? How about the Dalai Lama? Plus, I've never shaved my head before, so this could possibly kill a couple birds with one stone. I thought about it some more, and then read up on what Buddhist monk robes are made of, and realized that it would be a wildly appropriate costume, given that originally robes were made from scraps and discarded pieces of cloth. How perfect, creating a robe from clothes found at Goodwill, this would be a modern reinvention of the Buddhist monk robe, a perfect melding of ancient and modern. So easy and convenient, yet so authentic! With that last earthshattering realization, I decided.

So I went to Goodwill and looked for clothes with a crimson/red or yellow coloring, something flowy enough to look like a robe, with enough fabric, it seemed easy enough. I ended up getting a red dress (Talbots), sash, and sweater (Banana Republic), as well as a yellow dress (Ann Taylor). I thought it was amusingly ironic that these were all mass market luxury brands. How symbolic: Buying a representation of American consumerism for pennies on the dollar, cutting them up, and repurposing them for a Buddhist monk's robe. For a holiday of general drunkness and debauchery. What does it all mean?

So, came back with the goods, which totalled about $25 in total, which is rather expensive for a Goodwill haul, but I consider it a donation to a brand that seems more charitable than most others. Layed all the clothes on the floor. I cut the sleeves off of the sweater to fashion a belt to hold the two dresses on, simultaneously creating a red vest to wear under the yellow dress, then cut the sash open to expose more fabric surface area for a more flowing sash. Pretty much the only thing required then was to wear everything and hope for the best, and luckily things pulled together to look somewhat robe-like. Next would be shaving my head.

On the Wednesday evening before Halloween, I left work early to get to a haircut scheduled at 6:30pm for Roy.
