---
layout: post
title: Pride
description: Strangely enough, I have never met anybody who has explicitly told me what society expects us to do.
tags:
- thoguhts
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
---

<blockquote>I want to ensure that I died while living a life doing what I love most.</blockquote> - Danny Choo

I recently discovered the thoughtful blog posts written by Danny Choo, the one I like the best was "[How Discovering Japan Changed My Life](http://www.dannychoo.com/en/post/26094/How+Discovering+Japan+Changed+My+Life.html)". Danny describes his humble beginnings and the hard work it took to get to where he is today. The thing I like the most about Danny's story is how he took his taboo obsession with Japan and used it to push himself to great heights, eventually achieving financial independence while simultaneously doing what he loves. His story resonates with me because I have always admired people who are proud of what they do, even if it goes against what society expects you to do.

## What You Expect You To Do.

Strangely enough I have never met anybody who has explicitly told me what society expects us to do. Nobody has ever said, "_Get good grades, get a good job, work your whole life, and enjoy your golden years in retirement_." On the contrary, I think the only thing I've been told explicitly by teachers, posters at school, and Disney movies is to "Chase your Dreams". Although lacking in any substance, the dreamchaser dogma is a step in the right direction. Life is finite. Why not pursue dreams? Unfortunately, the reality is that some dreams are more achievable than others. And after hearing one story or another of somebody failing at their dream, or even experiencing a personal setback or two (or many!), it's easy have a lifelong self doubt. The self doubt is further compounded by the expectations of important people in your life, especially if they doubt you as well. And this self doubt is what brings people to change their thinking, and chain themselves to the notion of safety, avoiding risk, and staying in their comfort zone.

## Pride

Pride is the opposite of self-doubt. And to attack self-doubt, I must understand and cultivate my pride. That means, recognizing where pride comes from. My pride comes from reflecting on my self-actualization, a theoretical concept that define's your ability to reach your full potential. Now, whatever potential that may be, is probably the "dream" that was meant in "Chase your Dreams". My dream was to start a profitable business. And I did! Achieving that self-actualization is an uplifting component of my self image that helps balance the negative self doubt that creeps into my thoughts[1]. Pride is something I admire in other people as well, and I think that is what make's Danny's story so inspiring. He is proud of being an otaku! He is proud of his [Itasha](http://www.dannychoo.com/en/post/25847/Mirai+Itasha.html)! Proud of his own uniqueness! I love it!

## One Weird Trick

One trick I have been working on ever since I joined Optimists Club Speech Contest as an angsty teenager in middle school has been to practice pride. There have been many failures on the way, but as I have gotten older I've noticed that the act of cultivating a positive self-image has been a virtuous cycle. It's the fuel that can push you to do things that you would have brushed aside and forgotten. It is an investment that compounds in achievements and self-worth. In the right hands, it is the one weird trick that never ceases to deliver returns in happiness. And the best thing is, is that once you have a positive self-image, what you consider an "achievement" can be any 'ol weird thing that tickles your fancy! Back in high school, this was stuff like:



* I wore a dress to a high school dance.

* [I painted the family van in pastel rainbow colors.](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ryochiba/4487664951/in/set-72157623445484588/)

* [I made a music video with some friends.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zpaRRJKIm_A)

Whatever! It's all awesome. Nowadays, things that make me proud include:

* I fixed a bug for my customer.

* I am working with an artist to produce a company mascot to promote our upcoming expansion into Japan.

* I wrote this blog post.

## Choices

Coming out of school, I had the choice between going to Twitter or starting some no-name company with some friends, and I chose to do the startup because I had cultivated enough self-worth to be able to believe that I had a decent shot of succeeding. I knew that if there was anybody I could trust, it was myself. And this is what I think many smart, talented people miss out on, is that if you don't believe in yourself, then you will never feel that anything you do is an achievement, and in the end, never achieve what you were meant to.

### Footnotes:

1. This is beginning to sound like megolomania, but the problem is that the word pride is actually a thousand words in one. Hubris is pride. Nationalism is pride. But the pride that I am talking about here is an honorable pride. Honorable pride is never used to look down on others. It is pride that is always matched with humility. This pride is something that I think is a better representation of what people mean when they say "confidence", which I see as a behavioral side effect of pride.
