---
layout: post
title: Brolog Prologue
description: Team Tint is going bro.
tags:
- Bro
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
---

## June 28, 2013 - iPhone sms log
* Ryo: Lets buy quickmass and start using it. Going to bed. Leaving the door a little open so you can push it open.
* Tim: Thanks. Quickness???? Quickmass??? I'm so down
* Ryo: But we have to take before and after pics.
* Tim: I'm so happy right now
* Tim: I can't wait!!!'
* Ryo: We should make it into a blog post. People will read it.
* Ryo: So juicy
* Ryo: Nikhil should do it too and we can collect data

## QuickFacts
* Tim, Nikhil, and I all ordered [QuickMass](http://www.allmaxnutrition.com/products-type/quickmass-loaded/) and started taking it July 1st. It is a nutritional supplement that apparently helps to "bulk". 
* We also each committed to a 2 month gym membership and made a pact to go 5 times a week. Tim is our leader, as he has the most experience.
* My starting weight on July 1st was 133.7lbs.
* My target weight is to reach 150lbs by the end of the next two months.
* The three of us took some "before" pictures on July 1st, which will be revealed at the end of this experiment along with the after pics (if it is successful).

## Thoughts
For the past month or so Tim tried to get me to go to the gym with him and also suggested that I try a bulking nutritional supplement. Previously, I had been averse to the idea because a a gym pass is $30 a month, and the supplements can total up to $70 a month. But then I got to thinking about it and realized that $100 a month pales in comparison to the value of having a friend to go to the gym with. Personal trainers can cost far more than the cost of a membership. Not only that, but who would be a better trainer than a knowledgable friend that you already trust? Bingo, golden opportunity. So, I decided to take the plunge, buy all the things, and start going to the gym daily.

It is currently day 4 (the 4th of July) of this experiment and so far there have obviously been no interesting observations besides feeling relaxed after the working out. Now that I have a routine, I surprisingly look forward to walking over to 24 at the end of the day. We even met the [Leo Widrich](http://leostartsup.com/), cofounder of Buffer, after we saw him doing deadlifts on Tuesday. That's what you get for working out at the 24 Hr Fitness in SOMA.

My primary motivation in pursuing this is just plain curiosity, but also because it adds some diversity to the portfolio of things that bring happiness to my life. I've recently been keen on the belief that much like the nutrition we gain from the foods we consume, the most sustainable and healthy way to stay happy is to maintain a diverse set of happiness sources and take an active role in managing and appreciating them. For me, my happiness sources are Building Cool Stuff at Work, Being With Pauline, Cooking A Tasty Dinner, Fitness, and Realizing that my Life is Rich (in what, you may be asking? youth, freedom, and quality of life).

I'm hopeful that I can follow through on my promises and am curious to see if I can achieve my target weight.
