---
layout: post
title: Pauline
description: A description of how I feel right now
tags:
- personal
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
---

Pauline cheated on me with a 40 year old man named James Mitchell. He works at Chevron on the same team as her and after a weekend spent in Austin together, they got drunk and made out in a bar. She told me in the cafetieria in the Carlsbad Caverns National Park visitor's center on August 30th, 2013.

After a brief period of shock, I walked out into the hot desert air. The road in front of the visitor's center ended at a cliff that looked over the sandy New Mexican desert. The heat dried the moisture accumulating in my eyes and a couple of cars passed behind me as I admired the view. I walked back to the bathroom and took a piss, then walked out and she was sitting on a bench in front of the entrance looking upset. I handed her a water bottle and she took it. We walked to the car and we started driving through the winding desert road. The air conditioning hummed and the tires beat the ground beneath us, but there was silence. 

After thirty minutes, we reached the entrance of the park and I said I wanted to still go camping. We drove to the site and chose campsite 11. I used my phone to see how much flights to Portland were. I wanted to talk to Mond. They were expensive, so I decided to stay in Midland until my original flight departed in four days. Maybe I would see him another week. The sun fell below the mountains behind the orange tent, and the darkness exposed the holes in the night sky. That night, I saw the Milky Way and a beautiful sunrise. 

"I want you to hate me" - Pauline
"Yeah, that would be so convenient for you" - Ryo

I packed the tent and she packed the food. The car was loaded up, and we spent thirty minutes hiking a nearby nature trail. She forgot her hat in the car and refused to wear my hat, then relented. The drive home took a couple of hours, and passed through a handful of tiny towns. The car had no trouble passing the slow-moving oil tankers as they made their journeys between the pumps sprinkling the dry scrubland. She told me that these were Mesquite bushes on the side of the road. I asked her if she had tried any Texas barbeque. She said that she had not. It was hot even though the air conditioning was on, so I covered my arm with my hat.

We walked through the grocery store that she wanted to show me. We bought fried pickles at a restaurant she wanted to show me. I did not know why she wanted to shoe me these things, but I dipped the pickles in ranch and ate them anyway.

We tried making dinner and eating while watching a video like we used to do all the time when we lived together. It was not working out, so we just ate and talked. She said it tasted good, but that she didn't like egg noodles. I said it was like eating scrambled eggs. We laughed, but stopped.

As I look back on our relationship, I am conflicted by both the many fond memories we shared together over 4 years and also how obviously wrong it was for her to destroy those memories for a frivolous fling with a guy who gave her some attention. It will take some time for me to trust someone again after this experience.

In front of the Carlsbad visitor's center, I wrote a list on my phone that I will follow in order to grow stronger and move forward from this setback. Here is what I typed out:

Pain Mitigation Strategy
For the next month, you will:
1. Not think unjustified depressing thoughts, cry, but instead stay positive ( realize that the world is imperfect and happiness must come through adaptation, recognizing the vastness of the universe and our small role in it ).
2. Improve self in small, meaningful ways every day.
3. Avoid dependence on fallbacks such as drugs, self-destructive behavior, nostalgia of things that were not meant to be, frivolous spending.
4. Pauline is just a friend now and that's okay.
5. Find the strength and confidence to follow these guidelines as thorougly as possible.
6. Avoid unnecessary conversation of related events with others.
6a. Avoid fighting with Pauline to provoke an emotional reaction, which would admittedly be satisfying but ultimately immature and not very nice.
7. Fight apathy with action.
8. Enjoy life and appreciate other people.

To add to this list as I type this out now, here are some extras that I will try to follow:
9. Do not pretend that everything is alright, but do not pretend that everything is awful.
10. Do not spend excessive time blaming yourself, her, or James.
